Homework:

short selling:
The biggest lenders are the banks with a lot of stocks


Profit = (Price Sold) - (Price Buy)

only difference from a buy is the order of selling and buying

You can usually avoid interest on short sell if you short and buy within same day.

Loan fee: Interest that the lender is charging. When a hedgefund shorts a stock, The sold money is put in an account and earns interest.
if interest rate on the account is 4%, one percent would go to lender and the rest would go to seller.
That one percent is a loadn fee. It is not always one percent, it is dynamic and varies depending on shorting demand. 

highest loan fees are on smaller stocks. 

represents how many people want to short it.

you can create a synthetic short with options. 

basis point = 1/100 of a percent

30 basis points = .3 percent
very common finance language


how does tstat work with the data we found in the homework?
we create a hypothesis that the true mean is actually 0
the returns we saw on avg for the return are not so negative
that there isnt some other possible explanation 
stock returns are too noisy so i cant tell if the shorts
sellers have good information versus this happening by chance.


spread portfolio: Long short Portfolio: LS Portfolio
go long portfolio 0 and short portfolio 2

weights sum up to 0. 


Lecture:

in an efficient market, all information pertaining 
to pricing is included in the market pricing.

Joint hypothesis Problem: if your hypothesis doesnt work out,
its either your market model is wrong or your hypothesis is wrong.
hard to figure out which one. 

to counter this we use a whole bunch of models 
so we can reasonably assume that atleast one of them works
and if there is still inefficiancies, then 
there must be inefficiancies in the market. 

How do we test market efficiency give joint hypothesis thrm:
this model was really important for about 40 years:
random walk hypothesis

it states that expected returns for a
security are expected to be constant over time

(price tommorow) = (yesterdays price) + Error

RWH with Drift:
(price tommorow) = (yesterdays price) + Error + (some drift)

idea is that the only thing that drives prices,
is something unexpected.

(returns on a security) = (expected returns) + (unexpected returns)

this equation proved the RWH model wrong since
it works with statistical proof so returns must not be constant

A lot of people at the time took away the idea that 
markets must not be efficient, not that the model
was bad. 

People realized that this model implied that compensation
for risk was constant which is not true.


This model is still being used today:
lower level model:

The market model:
I can always decompose returns on stocks in a regression
can be expressed with having a linear relationship with a 
portfolio

its really a statistical model; not an economic model.

alpha = intercept
beta = slope
