efficient market = prices fully reflect all available information

fundemental value determined by three things:
1: expected profits/cash flow of asset

2: time value of money. Investors prefer cash sooner than later. 
Discount for putting off money til later. determined by everyone in market.
creates risk free interest rates. if people had no preference of consumption today vs 1 year from now, 
interest rates would be zero. 

3: risk. general uncertainty. discount for higher risk


1: price = fundemental value in an efficient market
2: (no free lunch)

in an efficient market, the more risk, the more reward

efficient market hypothesis (EMH):
if (1) violated, arbitrageurs could make money ->
so (2) is also violated. Therefore voilations (1) get fixed quickly

a big part of quanititative and academic finance is what degree this idea is true.


why do we care?
efficient markets protect less informed investors.
important implications for investment strategys
accurate signals for capital allocation if efficient.

evaluating market efficiency is very difficult because we dont know
a lot of what is given.

a model of market equilibrium tells you something about how prices should be set.
if market is efficient, then ...

usually models make predictions about explicit returns
(easier to work with using data).

joint hypothesis problem -> always jointly testing the model of market 
equilibrium and market efficiency

we need to assume information gets into prices eventually

testing market efficiency is hopeless
but ...
no arbitrage condition is the lowest level assumptions 
for market efficiency

any one model we shouldnt rely on. What if we do a set of good models
if none work well, inefficiency likely best explanation


can try to explicitly model an inefficiency channel.
instead of modelling efficiency

can we model the methods of inefficiency. if it matches,
then we can conclude the market is inefficient.


some models of market equilibrium:
This was used in the 50's and 60's
kinda silly
it became possible to do these tests when computers started returning

model: expected returns are positive. People wouldnt buy something,
if they assume it wont go up. therefore we can model expected returns
as positive.

we will take a model and test it with the data. and then
see if the model is bad or the market. 


